okay so just recently I had a really
crazy trippy mushroom experience and it
totally changed my whole outlook on life
and just how I am and who I am as a
person and yeah and that just got rid of
my sociopath II I'm not a sociopath
anymore do you want to clarify what your
position on firearms ownership is do you
believe that someone who has
hallucinations of the kind you describe
yourself including auditory
hallucinations quote-unquote hearing
voices that are not they're having a
paranoid and aggressive reaction to
strangers with a specific delusion that
people are trying to kill you when they
just say hello to you or shake hands
with you etc do you think that sort of
person should be allowed to own use and
carry firearms
yeah I've admitted being associate
sociopath before and at least one of my
videos and in the comments section I've
admitted to it on the vegan revolution
podcast I've even said I'm a sociopath
if I describe that person to you as
someone other than yourself would you
agree with the statement quote the
government is justified in doubting the
responsibility to safely use firearms
close quote yeah that shroom experience
just totally [ __ ] changed me and I'm
just a better person now we got too
closely related questions here did vegan
gains win in a perfect world should he
win should he have won would the world
be a better place if vegan gains got to
play the role of super victim and
advocate for freedom of speech crying
that YouTube unfairly punished him when
he is just an innocent science education
channel and then at the same time he can
turn around and claim that my channel
which obviously has no claim to being of
educational value whatsoever right that
my channel is guilty of exactly the
crime he was just accused of and I
should be shut down and censored on that
same basis there are many many strange
irony he's built into this situation and
I've gotten to see with the Avalanche
male that vegan gains has managed to
attract and retain an audience so stupid
that they are really not getting the
irony
okay so hashtag spoilers did vegan gains
win no he didn't for those of you who do
not understand the hierarchy of
censorship here on YouTube really simply
the the optimal level of not being
censored the apex of freedom of speech
here on YouTube is to have your videos
monetized so monetize doesn't just mean
that you're making money you're not
being censored at all and if anything
your content is actually being
encouraged here on YouTube okay the
level below that is being demonetised
this means you're kind of semi censored
and you're being discouraged from
promoting this kind of content on
youtube and obviously you're not making
any money now my channel of course it
would be ridiculous to think I'm
motivated by money all the time I take
on topics that are controversial enough
that I know they will be demonetized but
criticizing Richard did not fall into
this category okay and then below that
there are several levels of actual
censorship and I've talked about that in
the past you can get channel strikes you
can get specific videos deleted you can
also get a kind of warning email from
YouTube they used to do that more in the
past it's actually changed ifs which
other Gambit now where they spell out
what the complaint is against you and
this kind of thing so then we get into
the realm of actual censorship and what
happened with vegan gains and his
declared campaign to get my videos
deleted get my channel shut down all the
threats he made against me he lost so
this is a list of the recent videos I
made harshly criticizing vegan gains and
in some cases satirizing being it some
of these are criticism some of them are
satire every single one has the green
money symbol next to it and that means
that they are still monetized
they're not censored by YouTube in any
way whatsoever now why do I say vegan
gains at a campaign against me to get
these videos flagged took because he
told me that he told me he was going to
attempt to get my videos censored
my channel shut down in email and we
assumed that he's a man of his word now
beyond that of course it's possible that
he has fans who did the same thing
without him directing them that always
happens back when Doreen Rider was mad
at my channel my channel got attacked by
during writer supporters during my
defense so anyone can flag and report a
video as being harassment or having
something immoral about it and the very
first step of how YouTube responds to
that is by D monetizing the video and
then you appeal to the monetization and
then only at that stage does a human
being at YouTube headquarters look at
the video and consider it on its merits
does should this be censored semi
censored you know what level of
censorship should be applied in every
single one of these I won and vegan
gains lost okay
now you may say correctly oh but eyes'll
you had more videos than this like you
can't fit them on one screen here there
were more there were more video zeros
you're right so here's a second so
here's page two and there you go those
also all have the green 20 sign next to
them okay so this was a completely
one-sided dispute at the level of
YouTube evaluating the validity of his
complaints against me really briefly you
guys can go back and read what Richards
own emails say but I've got your summary
on screen what VIN gaines said to me is
one that my channel is telling lies
about him and when I asked him to give
me an example Richard I'm not lying
about you but it could be I'm incorrect
about something so what what's incorrect
what am i lying about he has never sent
even one example so I have to stand by
that at this point and I have to take
his silence at this stage of discussion
as a tacit admission that no I'm not
telling hi Sifl Richard and of course we
have differences of opinion that's why
this discussion is happening but that's
also part of why YouTube exists and part
of why we have free speech legislation
in the first place - he claimed that I
had made criminal allegations against
him that would put him in jail or result
in the authorities searching his house
now again this was really laughable
because he was playing the victim and
exaggerating to
extent but it's also simply not true he
only had one example of this and that
one example is false somebody was
talking about how I had a stash of
illegal weapons that's not true at all I
made a video actually getting weapons
back from the police after they
wrongfully charged me of a few things so
yeah yeah so that's totally false and
all the guns you saw they were props
they weren't real yes looked real orange
I pointed out that you know if you
actually watch precisely what he says
he's not reassuring you that he doesn't
intend to own guns in the future saying
that they were toys and they were fake
well the knives are not fake the basalt
batons are not fake the swords are not
fake there were a lot of weapons there
that work really happens um and he's
also not telling us that he's in future
he's not going to own real firearms but
number three here he wrote in to clarify
that he's currently on probation so
right now he can't own real guns or real
farms getting weapons back from the
police after they wrongfully charged me
did you guys know that everything I've
heard from vegan gains he always
presents himself as being completely
vindicated by the courts that he was
unjustly persecuted he plays the part of
the super victim he again and again
suggests that this inquiry into his
mental health he is being evaluated by a
psychiatrist or psychologist I don't
know which and is having an MRI scan a
brain scan that this completely
vindicates him that there was no you
know there was no justifiable reason to
impugn his sanity well I haven't seen
the opinion of the court on that I
haven't seen him fit into a psychiatrist
none of us have seen those documents and
he presents himself as being fully
vindicated but okay if you're on
probation that restricts you from owning
weapons that suggests to me already
Richard that you are giving a very
one-sided and dishonest account of that
story and here's the leap of inference
therefore he's going to get my channel
deleted by flagging my videos and
reporting me to YouTube as stated that
has not worked
he didn't win he lost too he will ask
his network
to do the same I found that hilarious
he's a member of a multi-channel network
those are and what sorry those are
normally castigated forming scams and so
on the number three if this doesn't work
he will sue me and it didn't work so
guys this comes back to the more
interesting question of the principle
the thing in this discourse I've had
with vegan gains what he's doing is
harassment
sending someone an email saying I'm
gonna get your channel they're not gonna
sue you and all the stuff the threats
the bullying the this is everything that
YouTube's policy is supposed to
discourage and if you guys have been
through the process if you have a
channel yourself you know one of the
first things they insist on is they ask
you have you tried to resolve this
peacefully by writing to the person and
by the way guys I have resolved this
disputes that way now remember there was
a guy who had a video and the title of
the video was accusing me of being a
pedophile and I I sent a message and
said look you know really think about
what you're saying here now guess what
I'm not a pedophile but you know and the
guy changed the title and the rest of
the video stayed up yeah I don't
remember the video being that bad but
the title was like look people put my
name into Google and they can see this
and really think about what you're doing
here giving the video that title so you
can write to people and I didn't you
know you know you're not I'm not
threatening to sue em and whatever you
can try to you know solve these problems
man-to-man and that is what YouTube
tries to encourage so really briefly
though my critique of him I'm saying
that his content is of poor quality the
single most controversial element of
this discourse I'm claiming that playing
video games is a waste of time for a
grown adult shocking just imagine I'm
saying that you can do more meaningful
things with your life you could do more
meaningful things with your channel
Richards specifically is that the
opportunity of a lifetime handed him in
relation to the vegan movement in
relation to getting a real education in
science and nutrition if you wanted to
here's a lot of opportunities sitting
there in the Greater Toronto Area
and from my perspective he's throwing
all of them away and richard has said to
me in in the written comments that he
now instead aspires to be like ninja if
you don't know the name ninjas uh you
know stage name for a professional video
game player is playing video games in
meaningful yoose your time is it for
Richard is it for ninja is it for
someone who says they're an aspiring
vegan activist and leader in the
movement is it for somebody you know
with Richards interests and you know
this is a conversation we can have and
people in the audience I got a ton of
the fan mail I got a ton of emails from
people you remember that you email
comments on Twitter or through other
media whenever people writing to me
saying I'm I remember one guy said look
man he owned a collection of classic
video game consoles and you know he said
that nostalgia was part form but having
watched my recent videos and discussions
he really reconsidered how many hours
per week you know he should be doing
this you know again the problem not
being owning the video game consoles the
problem being time and what you're doing
with your life and having the aspiration
to make the world a better place
having aspiration through your
self-discipline education center to
become a better person that's a
discussion worth having and guess what
YouTube doesn't regard that as
harassment YouTube doesn't regard that
as bullying YouTube regards a lot of
what Richard does ass irassman bullying
not just in your videos Richard in your
written comments and we all know you
went back and manually deleted all the
written comments you left in my channel
and that's probably why because you've
just lately had YouTube explain to you
the real meaning of harassment bullying
number four the list
I think his claims to being a man of
science or a really shaky basis this
came up pretty briefly in the videos but
I was saying okay this guy diagnosed
himself as sociopath and a psychopath
and he then considered himself to have
cured his condition by using illegal
hallucinogenic mushrooms yeah I've
admitted to being associate sociopath
before and at least one of my videos and
in the comments section I've admitted to
it on the vegan revolution podcast I've
even said I'm a sociopath
okay so just recently I had a really
crazy trippy mushroom experience and it
totally changed my whole outlook on life
and just how I am and who I am as a
person and yeah and that just got rid of
my sociopath II I'm not a sociopath
anymore I can actually feel for other
people now when I see someone get hurt I
can actually feel bad for them yeah just
I don't have that intense hatred in me
anymore and that's pretty amazing yeah
that shroom experience just totally
[ __ ] changed me and I'm just a better
person now this guy's claims to
representing a high standard of
scientific scrutiny there were other
examples I mentioned where he tried to
interpret a coroner's report and he
really couldn't do that I'm not claiming
that's easy but the role he has taken on
and the justification for his channel
and he himself says he apologized some
of his content is garbage or some of it
is offensive or as you know dark and
edgy humor he did do what kind of
blanket apology well what's the other
side of that Richard you know you could
have taken seriously instead of playing
video games that this is an opportunity
for you to step up and get some real
credentials in any one of the medical or
nutritional sciences or even in you know
sports nutrition and bodybuilding
training whatever you would not my
personal interest and then number five
as everyone knows he is self diagnosed
as insane said this hundred times I
appreciate his honesty but if you just
put together they're really serious
mental problems he describes himself as
having and struggling with I sympathize
to the struggle
I appreciate that he came in and talked
about it those are really grave warnings
and we're gonna come back to that
briefly towards the end of the video his
reply
and again this is my point guys this is
why I'm not being censored by YouTube
and Richard is his reply his main point
was again and again that I'm lying about
my penis size this is like the main
thing he had to say back to me okay it's
not a defense of playing video games to
have you he called me racist
he called me homophobic he threatened to
shut down and censor the channel because
I dare to criticize him he presents
himself as a victim of YouTube who did
nothing wrong he presents himself as a
super victim who's just trying to
protect his wife and family because
suppose it
my critique of him on YouTube would
place his life in danger yeah she said
that's ridiculous
um Richard just have the detachment this
is like the the the inverse of the
golden rule the golden rule is doing to
others as you'd have them doing to you
the flip side of that is how would you
regard this if it were someone else
doing it to you if somebody else did
this to you Richard
you'd regard them as really dishonest
and dishonorable this would cut against
your own your own moral code which does
in his own words sent around freedom of
speech especially when it comes to
satire and so on and so forth okay this
is the final email I sent to Richard
it's on my blog it was posted on my blog
several days after I sent it to him when
it seemed clear that he was not going to
reply and I said Richard okay
so we'll make a video proceeding with
your statement that one you do not
currently own real firearms because the
police do not allow you to under the
terms of your probation to correct me if
I'm wrong but you have lied and you
continue to lie and claim that you do
not own any real weapons you claim that
all of your rep weapons are quote
unquote fake and quote unquote toys
because the knives assault batons swords
etc are indeed real weapons three you
still want to own guns in the future as
soon as you are allowed to do so legally
is this correct do you want to clarify
what your position on firearms ownership
is do you believe that someone who has
hallucinations of the kind you describe
yourself including auditory
hallucinations quote/unquote hearing
voices that are not there having a
paranoid and aggressive reaction to
strangers with a specific delusion that
people are trying to kill you when they
just say hello to you or shake hands
with you etc do you think that sort of
person should be allowed to own use and
carry firearms if I describe that person
to you as someone other than yourself
would you agree with the statement quote
the government is justified in doubting
the responsibility to safely use
firearms close quote do you think that
the military will be willing to recruit
or employ someone with
list of symptoms and to trust them to
use guns responsibly in a high-pressure
situation would you not agree that
someone who had your checklist of
symptoms might be disqualified from
owning or carrying firearms and at least
some democratic countries Richard when
people write in to me saying he should
be on psychiatric medication I write
back saying no he should just take a vow
that he's not going to do any of these
things again you say that you're a
changed man what you're showing me is
that you haven't changed you presented
yourself as a victim of censorship you
then become a hypocrite the moment it
suits you
quote-unquote you're putting me in my
wife in danger as if this were any more
true of you then for example a
bodybuilder claimed that his life is in
danger if his apartment is searched for
illegal drugs because you've accused him
of using illegal drugs Richard you have
just been morally grandstanding about
the rights of free speech critique and
satire and then the moment it's
convenient for you you do everything in
your power to quote unquote oppress
someone else while continuing to play
the victim card you know that I could
make a telephone call to the Toronto
Police today with no difficulty and
simply express my concerns about you and
that would more likely entail problems
for you and your parole officer I didn't
do that
I engaged in exactly the kind of
rational philosophical discussion about
ethics on YouTube that you claim to
support and defend but not when it
questions your own most sacred value
namely wasting time playing video games
newspapers make criminal allegations all
the time it's part of journalism if a
newspaper says the alleged bank robber
that's an allegation it is reporting an
allegation the etymology of the two
words is clear in Canada telling the
truth is always a defense against
defamation I have been telling the truth
you have completely failed to provide
even one example of me one lying or two
making a criminal allegation against you
however yes for example you have openly
talked about using illegal drugs for
example hallucinogenic mushrooms on your
YouTube channel so if I report that
you've used illegal drugs then I am
making an allegation in the same sense
that a newspaper
is simply in reporting the facts that
doesn't mean I'm doing anything wrong
talking about a criminal allegation is
one of the most important parts of
protected freedom of speech there were
legal consequences for making reckless
and irresponsible criminal allegations
but that's not what I've done in my
videos you are the one who has made
irresponsible criminal allegations
accusing durianrider of rape although
this is certainly not the only example
and you have been callous and cruel
toward others when doing so Richard
you've been a complete hypocrite here
you've become everything you always said
you despised you are one playing the
victim and two at the same time you're
really engaging in bullying and
harassment yourself quote unquote I'll
shut down your channel I'll sue you in
response to legitimate criticism and
satire really think with some detachment
objectivity with the contrast between
the criticism and satire I've directed
at you and the criticism and satire you
directed at so many other people even
think about the difference between the
criticism of directed at you and your
replies to me just insulting me
basically the golden rule will be pretty
easy for you to apply here Richard why
can't you act toward me the same way
you'd want others to act toward you
[Music]